# FaceIDProject
This project uses computer vision software to identify a person based on very little amounts of data in a low-level application. 

## Installation
To begin the installation, go to a code editor of your choice and clone this repository with the URL "https://github.com/BenjaminBHoffman/Face_ID_Project". Make sure to download the cloned directory in a place that is easy to find, as we'll be navigating back to the download location later. Ensure you have Python downloaded and installed on your device. Create a new virtual environment to run the Python code in. Next, to ensure the virtual environment can run scripts, run PowerShell as Administrator and enter the command "Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted". A prompt will warn you that changing your execution policy might expose you to malicious scripts, but don't worry, we'll change this right back after activating our virtual environment. Type "Y" to the prompt, return to your code editor, and type ".venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1" in your terminal to activate the virtual environment. Once activated, you should see a green '(.venv)' text before your command line. Go back to your Administrator PowerShell window and type "Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy Restricted" then "Y" to set your execution policy back to what it was. You may now close that PowerShell window. Next, open up the cloned repository folder in your file explorer. Then right click on the "dlib.zip" file and select "Extract All...", then click "Browse" and navigate back to your cloned repository folder, then click on ".venv", then "Lib", then "site-packages". Once you've extracted these files, run "pip install -r requirements.txt" in the virtual environment terminal to install all the dependencies for the code. If all dependencies are installed without any errors, we're done installing!

## Restrictions
Since the face_recognition api only supports .jpg files, every image in the Known_People directory and the "Testing_Images" directory will need to be a .jpg file. 

## Usage 
To begin, run "python main.py" in your virtual environment terminal. Once the application window pops up, navigate back to the cloned repository folder, where you'll see a folder called "Known_People". Populate this folder with all the faces of people that you want to test an image of an unknown person against. It is recommended that you name each image the name of the person associated with the image. Note that you do not have to repopulate this folder every time you run the application. 

Next, upload the images of people you want to identify, and the program will put them into the "Testing_Images" directory. Once you hit verify, the program will match the unknown person to a known person in the "Known_People" directory for each uploaded unknown image, and give you the picture it matched to, along with their name. 

